---
title: Insert title here
key: 65abb579759e5531013034984211ff50

---
## Let's Begin

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "b9f4065f4a"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Jon Avis
title: IT Systems Engineer


`@script`
Welcome back. In this chapter we will be looking at the different kind of relationships in a relational database. But first, let's take a look at primary keys and foreign keys.


---
## What Are Primary Keys

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "9489537124"
```

`@part1`
A column, or combination of columns, which uniquely identifies a record within a table.

They must be unique.

They cannot contain Null values.

A table can only contain one primary key.


`@script`
First, let's begin by looking at primary keys. What is a primary key? A primary key is a column, or a combination of columns, which uniquely identifies a record, a row of data, within a table. There are certain rules that a primary key column must comply with. Each value in a primary key column must be unique. A primary key column cannot contain Null values. And a table can only have one primary key. Let's take a look at an example of a primary key.


---
## Example of a Single Column Primary Key

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "302dac558b"
```

`@part1`



`@script`
Let's take a look at a table from our music app that we saw earlier in the course. In this app we need to store data about different artists. This means we would have an artists table which would contain data such as the artists name, country and genre. Let's see which columns could potentially be used as our primary key. We can't use the country column as there are repeated values of data which breaks the rule that each value must be unique. We can't use the genre column for the same reason. It is possible to use the name column as a primary key as every artist should have a unique name. But normally we would add an id column which starts at 1 and automatically increments with every new row of data added to the table. We can then use this id column as our primary key.


---
## What Are Foreign Keys

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "032ed86fc9"
```

`@part1`



`@script`
Now let's take a look at foreign keys. Foreign keys are used to identify relationships between tables in a database. A foreign key is defined in one table and it references the primary key values in another table. The table containing the foreign key is called the child table and the table that this foreign key is referencing is called the parent table. Unlike primary keys a table can contain multiple foreign keys. Let's take a look at an example of a foreign key.


---
## Final Slide

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "0cd9782e5e"
```

`@script`


